# Encodings recap
Here is the list of the SAT encodings, with the corresponding brief explanation.

*Remark: all the encodings support both z3 and cvc5 solvers, while only the encodings of the group $3$ and $4$ support the solver yices-smt2 (yices-smt2 recquires a specific logic to be imposed).*

0. The `encoding_0` is based on the SMT variables 'coordX[i]' and 'coordY[i]'. The optimization procedure is very basic: non-incremental linear search, starting from the top (i.e. 'l_max'). 'Non-incremental' means that, at each step, the solver is created and run from scratch.
1. The `encoding_1` uses the same solving and optimization procedures of the previous encoding. The only difference is that a better initial upper bound for the length of the plate (i.e. 'l_max') has been used.
2. In this group of encodings, i.e. encodings from `encoding_2A` to `encoding_2D`, the solving procedure is very similar to the one of the previous encoding, with the addition of the SMT variable 'l'. The optimization procedure has been improved, thanks to the variable 'l': it allows to perform the incremental solving, which means that the solver is created only one time, at the beginning, and then new constraints are added synamically. Four different incremental optimization procedures are tried: linear search from the top 'l_max'(`encoding_2A`); binary search (`encoding_2B`); linear search from the bottom 'l_min' (`encoding_2C`); slightly different version of binary search (`encoding_2D`). The best alternative is `encoding_2C`, with the z3 solver (the cvc5 solver does not perform well if no logic is specified).
3. In this group of encodings, i.e. encodings from `encoding_3A` to `encoding_3F`, the same solving and optimization procedures of the encoding `encoding_2B` are used (i.e. binary search). The only difference is that a specific logic has been imposed into the encoding. The tried logics are the following: "QF_UFLIA" (`encoding_3A`); "QF_UFIDL" (`encoding_3B`); "QF_UFIDL" (more compliant encoding) (`encoding_3C`); "QF_LIA" (`encoding_3D`); "QF_IDL" (`encoding_3E`); "QF_IDL" (more compliant encoding) (`encoding_3F`). These different encodings have been tested, also with different solvers, among z3 cvc5 yices-smt2. The best alternative remains the `encoding_2C` (linear search from the bottom, with no specified logic), with the z3 solver.
4. In this group of encodings, i.e. encodings from `encoding_4A` to `encoding_4F`, the same solving and optimization procedures of the encoding `encoding_2C` are used (i.e. linear search from the bottom). The only difference is that a specific logic has been imposed into the encoding, like in the group $3$ of encodings. The tried logics are the same. The different encodings have been tested, also with different solvers, among z3 cvc5 yices-smt2. The best alternative remains the `encoding_2B` (linear search from the bottom, with no specified logic), with the z3 solver.
5. Finally, the **rotation** variant has been taken into account. This group of encodings, i.e. `encoding_5A` `encoding_5B`, has been built by starting from the the encoding `encoding_2C` and then modifing it. Worse performances with respect to the encodings `encoding_2C`.
