# Encodings recap
Here is the list of the SAT encodings, with the corresponding brief explanation.

0. The `encoding_0` is based on two groups of SAT variables: 'circuit_i_j_k' and 'coord_i_j_k'. The optimization procedure is naive: it simply loops through all the possible solutions, keeping the best one. This encoding can't be used in practice.
1. The `encoding_1` is the same of the previous one. The optimization is instead improved. Same structure: cycle in which at each iteration the solver is created and run from scratch (no incremental solving). But now, at each iteration, the current best length of the plate (i.e. `l`) is given to the solver as upper bound for the length of the plate (i.e. `l_max`). (Actually, `l-1` is given as `l_max`). In this way, at each iteration is found a better solution with respect to the current one.
2. The `encoding_2` is the same of the previous one, with the addition of the SAT variables 'length_k_l'. The optimization procedure has been improved, thanks to the variables 'length_k_l': they allow to perform incremental solving. Indeed, the solver is created only one time, at the beginning. Then, a cycle is performed, in which at each iteration new constraints are injected into the solver, namely: the constraints imposing that the already found solutions are not feasible anymore (like in the previous encodings); the constraints imposing that the lengths of the plate bigger than the current best length are not feasible anymore (this is done using the 'length_k_l' variables). Incremental solving.
3. The `encoding_3` is the same of the previous one, but with the difference that better bounds for all the variables are used. Basically, the domain ranges of the variables have been reduced.
4. In this group of encodings, i.e. encodings from `encoding_4A` to `encoding_4F`, the starting point is the previous encoding, and then some combinations of non-necessary constraints are removed, for trying to improve the performances. Best encoding: `encoding_4A`.
5. The `encoding_5` is very similar to the `encoding_4A`. The only difference is about the SAT variables 'length_k_l'. We don't use these variables anymore, but we use other variables: 'length_l'. No improvement with respect to before.
6. In this group of encodings, i.e. encodings `encoding_6A` and `encoding_6B`, the solving encoding has been changed with respect to the previous encodings. Now the SAT variables 'coord_i_j_k' are not used anymore: less variables. The aim is to try to eliminate the redundancy of having two grid of variables 'coord_i_j_k' and 'circuit_i_j_k'. No improvements with respect to `encoding_4A`.
7. In this group of encodings, i.e. encodings from `encoding_7A` to `encoding_7D`, the same solving and optimization of the `encoding_4A` are used. The only difference is that now some simmetry breaking constraints are ensured. In particular, we want to break the following three simmetries: horizontal flip of the plate; vertical flip of the plate; 180° flip of the plate. No improvements with respect to `encoding_4A`.
8. In this group of encodings, i.e. encodings from `encoding_8A` to `encoding_8E`, the same solving and optimization of the `encoding_4A` are used. The only difference is that now different encodings of the `at_most_one` constraint are tried: bitwise, pairwise, commander, ... . No relevant improvements with respect to `encoding_4A`.
9. In this group of encodings, i.e. encodings `encoding_9A` `encoding_9AA` `encoding_9AD` `encoding_9B` `encoding_9BA` `encoding_9BD`, the optimization procedure has been improved. Since now, we have used the incremental linear search, starting from the top (i.e. 'l_max'). Now, two more sophisticated optimization procedures are tried: incremental binary search and incremental linear search from the bottom (i.e. 'l_min'). Also, different encodings for the `at_most_one` constraint are tried. Binary search: encodings `encoding_9A` `encoding_9AA` `encoding_9AD`. Linear search from the bottom: encodings `encoding_9B` `encoding_9BA` `encoding_9BD`. Improvement with respect to `encoding_4A`: `encoding_9BA`.
10. Since now, no big improvements have been achieved: the results are very poor (only $13$ solved instances). This group of encodings boosts dramatically the performances. Encodings `encoding_10`, `encoding_10A`, `encoding_10B`, `encoding_10C`. Completely different encodings from the previous ones: they take inspiration from the paper *'A SAT-based Method for Solving the Two-dimensional Strip Packing Problem'*, which is based on the **order encoding**. Different optimization procedures are tried: non-incremental linear search  (`encoding_10`); non-incremental binary search (`encoding_10A`); incremental binary search (`encoding_10B`); incremental linear search starting from the bottom (`encoding_10C`). The best alternative seems to be `encoding_10B`.
11. Finally, the **rotation** variant has been taken into account. This group of encodings, i.e. `encoding_11` `encoding_11A` `encoding_11B` `encoding_11C`, has been built by starting from the the encoding 10 (i.e. order encoding) and then modifing it. The same different optimization procedures of the encodings are tried also here. Worse performances with respect to the encodings 10.

